---
layout: default
title: List of Known Properties
permalink: /properties/
redirect_from:
  - /List of Known Properties/
  - /Requested Properties/
---

{% include links.markdown %}

Properties generated by OpenSlide
---------------------------------

`openslide.background-color`
: The background color of the slide, given as an RGB hex triplet. This property
 is not always present.

`openslide.bounds-height`
: The height of the rectangle bounding the non-empty region of the slide.
This property is not always present.

`openslide.bounds-width`
: The width of the rectangle bounding the non-empty region of the slide.
This property is not always present.

`openslide.bounds-x`
: The X coordinate of the rectangle bounding the non-empty region of the slide.
This property is not always present.

`openslide.bounds-y`
: The Y coordinate of the rectangle bounding the non-empty region of the slide.
This property is not always present.

`openslide.comment`
: A free-form text comment.

`openslide.mpp-x`
: Microns per pixel in the X dimension of level 0.  May not be present or
accurate.

`openslide.mpp-y`
: Microns per pixel in the Y dimension of level 0.  May not be present or
accurate.

`openslide.objective-power`
: Magnification power of the objective.  Often inaccurate; sometimes missing.

`openslide.quickhash-1`
: A non-cryptographic hash of a subset of the slide data. It can be used
 to uniquely identify a particular virtual slide, but cannot be used
 to detect file corruption or modification.

`openslide.vendor`
: The name of the vendor backend.


Properties for TIFF-based formats
---------------------------------

`tiff.Artist`
: The contents of the TIFF Artist tag.

`tiff.Copyright`
: The contents of the TIFF Copyright tag.

`tiff.DateTime`
: The contents of the TIFF DateTime tag.

`tiff.DocumentName`
: The contents of the TIFF DocumentName tag.

`tiff.HostComputer`
: The contents of the TIFF HostComputer tag.

`tiff.ImageDescription`
: The contents of the TIFF ImageDescripton tag.

`tiff.Make`
: The contents of the TIFF Make tag.

`tiff.Model`
: The contents of the TIFF Model tag.

`tiff.ResolutionUnit`
: The contents of the TIFF ResolutionUnit tag.

`tiff.Software`
: The contents of the TIFF Software tag.

`tiff.XPosition`
: The contents of the TIFF XPosition tag.

`tiff.XResolution`
: The contents of the TIFF XResolution tag.

`tiff.YPosition`
: The contents of the TIFF YPosition tag.

`tiff.YResolution`
: The contents of the TIFF YResolution tag.


Vendor-specific properties
--------------------------

A list of vendor-specific properties can be found on the pages for
each vendor format, linked from [Supported Virtual Slide
Formats][formats].
